 # React Docs - Thinking in React 

1. What is the `single responsibility principle` and how does it apply to components?
- The single-responsibility principle is a computer programming principle that states that "A module should be responsible to one, and only one, actor." The term actor refers to a group that requires a change in the module. 
2. What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?
 - Static applications are just that, static. They don't move. You can basically put them on a Smartphone or tablet and they will fully work without any internet or data connection.
3. Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?
  - We need to make your UI interactive

4. What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?
 - **Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it probably isn’t state.**
 - **Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it probably isn’t state.**
 - **Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? If so, it isn’t state.**
5. How can you identify where state needs to live?**
- Identify every component that renders something based on that state.
- Find a common owner component (a single component above all the components that need the state in the hierarchy).
- Either the common owner or another component higher up in the hierarchy should own the state.
 - If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common owner component.

