# Readings: MongoDB and Mongoose

## nosql vs sql

### Chart differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:

|SQL | NoSQL|
| :---:       |    :----:   |     
|predefined schema|dynamic schema|
|vertically scalable|horizontally scalable|
|uses SQL for defining and manipulating the data|focused on collection of documents|
|good fit for the complex query| not good fit for complex queries|

1. What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?
- SQL databases are good fit for the complex query intensive environment

2. Give a real world example.|
-  Oracle Express Edition
- MS-SQL Server Express Edition
- MySQL Community Edition

3. What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?
- Transactions purpose, it is still not comparable and sable enough in high load and for complex transactional applications

4. Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?
- NoSQL database fits better for the hierarchical data storage as it follows the key-value pair way of storing data similar to JSON data

5. Which type of database is best for scalability?
- For scalability: In most typical situations, SQL databases are vertically scalable. You can manage increasing load by increasing the CPU, RAM, SSD, etc, on a single server.


 A. What does SQL stand for?
- Structured Query Language
 
 B. What is a relational database?
 - A relational database is a collection of information that organizes data in predefined relationships where data is stored in one or more tables
   
 C. What type of structure does a relational database work with?
- A relational database
 
 D. What is a ‘schema’?
 - schema is a list of logical structures of data.
 
 E. What is a NoSQL database?
- Non-tabular databases and store data differently than relational tables

 F. What is inside of a MongoDB database?
- TAble

